# Comptages cycliques¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/cycle_counts.html

---

Comptages cycliques ¶ Pour la plupart des entreprises, l’inventaire de l’entrepôt ne doit être compté qu’une fois par an. C’est pourquoi, par défaut, après avoir effectué un ajustement d’inventaire dans Odoo, la date prévue pour le prochain inventaire est fixée au 31 décembre de l’année en cours. Toutefois, pour certaines entreprises, il est essentiel d’avoir un inventaire précis à tout moment. Ces entreprises utilisent des comptages cycliques pour maintenir des niveaux de stocks critiques exacts. Le comptage cyclique est une méthode permettant aux entreprises de compter leurs stocks plus souvent dans certains emplacements , afin de s’assurer que leurs inventaires physiques correspondent à leurs enregistrements d’inventaire. Configuration ¶ In Odoo, cycle counts are performed by location. Therefore, the Storage Locations feature needs to be enabled before performing a cycle count. To enable this feature, navigate to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings , and scroll down to the Warehouse section. Then, tick the checkbox next to Storage Locations , and click Save . Modifier la fréquence d’inventaire par emplacement ¶ Once the Storage Locations feature is enabled, and there are multiple locations created in the warehouse, the inventory count frequency can be changed for specific locations. Pour afficher et modifier les emplacements, allez à l’application Inventaire ‣ Configuration ‣ Emplacements . Une page Emplacements s’ouvre en contient tous les emplacements actuellement créés et répertoriés dans l’entrepôt. From this page, click into a location to reveal the settings and configuration page for that location. Under the Cyclic Counting section, locate the Inventory Frequency (Days) field, which should be set to 0 by default (if this location has not been edited previously). In this field, change the value to any number of days desired for the frequency of counts. Example Pour un emplacement nécessitant un inventaire tous les 30 jours, la Valeur de la fréquence (Jours) doit être définie sur 30 . Now, once an inventory adjustment is applied to this location, the next scheduled count date is automatically set, based on the value entered into the Inventory Frequency (Days) field. Comptage de l’inventaire par emplacement ¶ To perform a cycle count for a specific location in the warehouse, navigate to Inventory app ‣ Operations ‣ Physical Inventory . This reveals an Inventory Adjustments page containing all products currently in-stock, with each product listed on its own line. From this page, the Filters and Group By options (accessible by clicking the ⬇️ (down arrow) icon, to the right of the Search… bar), can be used to select specific locations and perform inventory counts. To select a specific location, and view all products within that location, click the ⬇️ (down arrow) icon, to the right of the Search… bar. Then, in the Group By column, click Add Custom Group to reveal a new drop-down menu. Click Location from the drop-down menu. Doing so sorts products into their storage locations on the Inventory Adjustments page, and a cycle count can be performed for all products in that location. Astuce In large warehouses with multiple locations and a high volume of products, it might be easier to search for the specific location desired. To do this, from the Inventory Adjustments page, click the ⬇️ (down arrow) icon to the right of the Search… bar. Then, in the Filters column, click Add Custom Filter to open an Add Custom Filter pop-up window. In the first field, click the value and select Location from the list of options. Select contains in the second field. In the third field, type in the name of the location being searched for. Click Add for that location to appear on the page. Modifier la fréquence des inventaires complets ¶ While cycle counts are typically performed per location, the scheduled date for full inventory counts of all in-stock products in the warehouse can also be manually changed, to push the date up sooner than the date listed. To modify the default scheduled date, go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings . Then, in the Operations section, locate the Annual Inventory Day and Month setting field, which includes a drop-down field that is set to 31 December , by default. Pour modifier le jour, cliquez sur 31 , et remplacez-le par un jour compris entre 1 et 31 , en fonction du mois de l’année souhaité. Pour modifier le mois, cliquez sur Décembre pour faire apparaître le menu déroulant et sélectionnez le mois souhaité. Once all necessary changes have been made, click Save . Voir aussi Ajustements d’inventaire Emplacements Edit on GitHub