# Factures clients¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices.html

---

Factures clients ¶ A customer invoice is a document issued by a company for products and/or services sold to a customer. It records receivables as they are sent to customers. Customer invoices can include amounts due for the goods and/or services provided, applicable sales taxes, shipping and handling fees, and other charges. Odoo supports multiple invoicing and payment workflows. Voir aussi Processus de facturation From draft invoice to profit and loss report, the process involves several steps once the goods (or services) have been ordered/shipped (or rendered) to a customer, depending on the invoicing policy: Création d’une facture Invoice confirmation Envoi de la facture Payment and reconciliation Payment follow-up Analyse Création d’une facture ¶ Draft invoices can be created directly from documents like sales orders or purchase orders or manually from the Customer Invoices journal in the Accounting Dashboard . An invoice must include the required information to enable the customer to pay promptly for their goods and services. Make sure the following fields are appropriately completed: Customer : When a customer is selected, Odoo automatically pulls information from the customer record like the invoice address, preferred payment terms , fiscal positions , receivable account, and more onto the invoice. To change these values for this specific invoice, edit them directly on the invoice. To change them for future invoices, change the values on the contact record. Invoice Date : If not set manually, this field is automatically set as the current date upon confirmation. Due Date or payment terms : To specify when the customer has to pay the invoice. Journal : Is automatically set and can be changed if needed. Currency Product : Click Add a line to add a product. Quantity Price Taxes (if applicable) Astuce To display the total amount of the invoice in words, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings and activate the Total amount of invoice in letters option. The Journal Items tab displays the accounting entries created. Additional invoice information such as the Customer Reference , Fiscal Positions , Incoterms , and more can be added or modified in the Other Info tab. Note Odoo initially creates invoices in Draft status. Draft invoices have no accounting impact until they are confirmed . Voir aussi Factures pro forma Invoice confirmation ¶ Click Confirm when the document is completed. The document’s status changes to Posted , and a journal entry is generated based on the invoice configuration. On confirmation, Odoo assigns each invoice a unique number from a defined sequence . Note Once confirmed, an invoice can no longer be updated. Click Reset to draft if changes are needed. If required, invoices and other journal entries can be locked once posted using the Lock posted entries with hash feature. Envoi de la facture ¶ To send the invoice to the customer, click Send & Print . A Configure your document layout pop-up window will appear if a default invoice layout hasn’t been customized. Then, select how to send this invoice to the customer in the Send window. To send and print multiple invoices, go to Accounting ‣ Customers ‣ Invoices and select them. Then click the Actions menu and select Send & Print . A banner will appear on the selected invoices to indicate they are part of an ongoing send and print batch. This helps prevent the process from being triggered manually again, as it may take some time to complete for exceptionally large batches. Payment and reconciliation ¶ In Odoo, an invoice is considered Paid when the associated accounting entry has been reconciled with a corresponding bank transaction. Voir aussi Paiements Rapprochement bancaire Payment follow-up ¶ Odoo’s follow-up actions help companies follow up on customer invoices. Different actions can be set up to remind customers to pay their outstanding invoices, depending on how much the customer is overdue. These actions are bundled into follow-up levels that trigger when an invoice is overdue by a certain number of days. If there are multiple overdue invoices for the same customer, the actions are performed on the most overdue invoice. Analyse ¶ Partner reports ¶ Grand livre partenaires ¶ The Partner Ledger report shows the balance of customers and suppliers. To access it, go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ Partner Ledger . Échéancier clients ¶ To review outstanding customer invoices and their related due dates, use the Aged Receivable report. To access it, go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ Aged Receivable . Échéancier fournisseurs ¶ To review outstanding vendor bills and their related due dates, use the Aged Payable report. To access it, go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ Aged Payable . Compte de résultat ¶ The Profit and Loss statement shows details of income and expenses. Bilan ¶ The Balance Sheet summarizes the company’s assets, liabilities, and equity at a specific time. Processus de facturation Adresses de livraison et de facturation Conditions de paiement et plans de paiement échelonné Conditions générales par défaut (CG) Escomptes et réduction d’impôt Avoirs et remboursements Arrondi des paiements en espèces Produits constatés d’avance Facturation électronique ( EDI ) Séquence des factures Envoi postal Les codes QR de l’EPC Incoterms Edit on GitHub