# Search, filter, and group records¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/essentials/search.html
Type: Documentation Technique Odoo 17

---

Search, filter, and group records ¶ Odoo allows for the searching, filtering, and grouping of records in a view to display only the most relevant records. The search bar is located at the top of the view, start typing to search for values , or click the 🔽 (down arrow) icon to access the Filter , Group By , and Favorites drop-down menus. Search for values ¶ Use the search field to quickly look for specific values, and add them as a filter. Type the value to search for, and select the desired option from the drop-down menu to apply the search filter. Example Instead of adding a custom filter to select records where Mitchell Admin is the salesperson on the Sales Analysis report ( Sales app ‣ Reporting ‣ Sales ), search for Mitch , and click the ⏵ (right arrow) next to Search Salesperson for: Mitch , and select Mitchell Admin . Note Using the search field is equivalent to using the contains operator when adding a custom filter . If a partial value is entered, and the desired field is directly selected (without selecting the ⏵ (right arrow) ), all records containing the typed characters for the selected field are included. Filters ¶ Filters are used to select records that meet specific criteria. The default selection of records is specific to each view, but can be modified by selecting one (or several) preconfigured filters , or by adding a custom filter . Preconfigured filters ¶ Modify the default selection of records by clicking the 🔽 (down arrow) icon from the search bar, and selecting one (or several) preconfigured filters from the Filters drop-down menu. Example On the Sales Analysis report ( Sales app ‣ Reporting ‣ Sales ), only records that are at the sales order stage, with an order date within the last 365 days, are selected by default. To also include records at the quotation stage, select Quotations from the Filters . Furthermore, to only include sales order and quotation records from a specific year, like 2024, for example, first remove the existing Order Date: Last 365 Days filter, by clicking the ❌ (remove) icon, then select Order Date ‣ 2024 . Note The preconfigured Filters are grouped, and each group is separated by a horizontal line. Selecting preconfigured filters from the same group allows records to match any of the applied conditions. However, selecting filters from different groups requires records to match all of the applied conditions. Custom filters ¶ If the preconfigured filters are not specific enough, add a custom filter. To do so, click the 🔽 (down arrow) icon in the search bar, then select Filters ‣ Add Custom Filter . The Add Custom Filter pop-up window displays the matching option, filter rule, and a toggle to Include archived records. The default matching configuration is to Match any of the following rules , indicating that each filter rule is applied independently. To change the matching configuration to Match all of the following rules , at least two filter rules must be added to the custom filter. Match all 🔽 of the following rules : all of the filter rules must be met. Logically, this is an AND ( & ) operation. Match any 🔽 of the following rules : any of the filter rules can be met. Logically, this is an OR ( | ) operation. By default, a single filter rule is added to the custom filter. The following describes the structure of a filter rule: The first inline field is the field name to filter by. Some fields have refined parameters that are nested within another field. These fields have an > (arrow) icon beside them, which can be selected to reveal the nested fields. The second inline field is the conditional operator used to compare the field name to the value. The available conditional operators are specific to the field’s data type. The third inline field is the variable value of the field name. The value input may appear as a drop-down menu, a text input, a number input, a date/time input, a boolean selector, or it may be blank, depending on the operator used and the field’s data type. Three inline buttons are also available to the right of the rule’s filter criteria: ➕ (plus sign) : adds a new rule below the existing rule. (Add branch) : adds a new group of rules below the existing rule, with the any and all matching options available to define how each rule within this branch is applied to the filter. If the matching option is set to the same as the parent group, the fields are moved to join the parent group. Example If the matching option is set to Match all 🔽 of the following rules , and a new branch is added with its matching option changed from any 🔽 of to all 🔽 of , the newly-added branch disappears, and its group of rules are moved to the parent group. 🗑️ (garbage can) : deletes the node. If a branch node is deleted, all children of that node are deleted, as well. A new filter rule can be added to the custom filter by clicking the New Rule button. Once the filter criteria are defined, click Add to add the custom filter to the view. Example To target all leads and opportunities from the CRM app that are in the Won stage, and have an expected revenue greater than $1,000, the following should be entered: Match all 🔽 (down arrow) of the following rules: Stage is in Won Expected Revenue > 1,000 any 🔽 (down arrow) of: Type = Lead Type = Opportunity Tip Activate Developer mode (debug mode) to reveal each field’s technical name and data type, as well as the # Code editor text area below the filter rules, to view and edit the domain manually. Group records ¶ The display of records in a view can be clustered together, according to one of the preconfigured groups . To do so, click the 🔽 (down arrow) icon in the search bar, then select one of the Group By options from the drop-down menu. Example To group the records by salesperson on the Sales Analysis report ( Sales app ‣ Reporting ‣ Sales ), click the Salesperson option from the Group By drop-down menu. The view changes to group the records by salesperson, without filtering out any records. It is possible to customize groups by using a field present on the model. To do so, click Add Custom Group , and select a field from the drop-down menu. Note Several groups can be used at the same time. The first group that is selected is the main cluster, the next one that is added further divides the main group’s categories, and so on. Furthermore, filters and groups can be used together to refine the view even more. Comparison ¶ Certain reporting dashboards include a Comparison section in the drop-down menus of their Search… bars. This includes the Overall Equipment Effectiveness report for the Manufacturing app, and the Purchase report for the Purchase app, among others. The options in the Comparison section are used to compare data from two different time periods. There are two comparison options to choose from: (Time Filter): Previous Period and (Time Filter): Previous Year . Important For some reports, the Comparison section only appears in the Search… bar drop-down menu if one (or more) time periods have been selected in the Filters column. This is because, if no time period is specified, there is nothing to compare. Additionally, some reports only allow use of the Comparison feature when the (pie chart) graph type, or the (pivot) view, is selected. A Comparison option can be selected even if another view is enabled, but doing so does not change the way data is displayed on the report. To view data using one of the two comparisons, begin by selecting a time period in the Filters column of the Search… bar drop-down menu. Then, select either (Time Filter): Previous Period or (Time Filter): Previous Year in the Comparison section. With one of the Comparison options enabled, the report compares the data for the selected period, with the data for the same unit of time (month, quarter, year), one period or year prior. The way the data is displayed depends on the selected view: The (bar chart) shows two bars, side-by-side, for each unit of time for the selected time period. The left bar represents the selected time period, while the right bar represents the previous time period. The (line chart) is displayed with two lines, one representing the selected time period, and the other representing the previous time period. The (pie chart) appears as a large circle with a smaller circle inside. The larger circle represents the selected time period, while the smaller circle represents the previous time period. The (pivot table) is displayed with each column split into two smaller columns. The right column represents the selected time period, while the left column represents the previous time period. Example In the Production Analysis report of the Manufacturing app, data for the second quarter of 2024 is compared to data for the second quarter of 2023. Q2 is selected in the End Date filter section of the Search… bar drop-down menu. In the Comparison section, End Date: Previous Year is selected. The current year is 2024, so the larger circle shows data for the second quarter (Q2) of 2024. The smaller circle shows data for the second quarter (Q2) of 2023, which is the same time period, but one year prior. If End Date: Previous Period is selected instead, the smaller circle shows data for the first quarter (Q1) of 2024, which is the same time period, but one period prior. Favorites ¶ Favorites are a way to save a specific search for future use, or as the new default filter for the view. To save the current view as a favorite, click the 🔽 (down arrow) icon in the search bar, then select the Save current search drop-down menu to display the following options: Filter name: name of the favorited search. Default filter : sets the favorited search as the default filter for the view. Shared : makes the favorited search available to all users. By default, the favorited search is only available to the user who created it. Once the options are set, click Save to save the favorited search. Saved favorites can be accessed by clicking the 🔽 (down arrow) icon in the search bar, then selecting the saved filter in the Favorites drop-down menu. To remove a saved favorite, click the 🗑️ (garbage can) icon next to the favorited search. Tip To view all favorited searches, first activate Developer mode (debug mode) , and navigate to Settings app ‣ Technical ‣ User Interface: User-defined Filters . From here, all favorited searches can be viewed, edited, archived, or deleted. Edit on GitHub

--- EXEMPLES DE CODE ---


Exemple 1:
```
Order Date: Last 365 Days
```
