# Discussion¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/productivity/discuss.html

---

Discussion ¶ Odoo Discuss is an internal communication app that allows users to connect through messages, notes, file sharing, and video calls. Discuss enables communication through a persistent chat window that works across applications, or through the dedicated Discuss dashboard. Upon opening the Discuss app , the Discuss dashboard appears. Inbox, starred, and history ¶ Upon opening the Discuss app , the Discuss dashboard appears. On the Discuss dashboard, unread messages are visible in the Inbox . Starred is where starred messages are stored. History shows chatter updates for records in the Odoo database the user has been assigned to, or tagged on. Messages directs ¶ Direct messages allow the user to communicate privately with one or multiple team members. To start a new direct message, click the icon, next to Direct Messages on the Discuss dashboard, and enter the name of the desired person in the Start a conversation search bar that appears. Astuce Multiple names can be selected in the Start a conversation search bar. Once all of the names have been entered, press Enter . Direct message actions ¶ Hover over a direct message in the chat window to see a menu of actions to take on the message. (Add a Reaction) : open a drop-down menu of emojis that can be used to react to the direct message. (Reply) : reply to the direct message in a thread. (Mark as Todo) : add the message to the Starred tab. (Expand) : reveals more message actions, including: Pin Mark as Unread Edit Delete Conversation actions ¶ The icons in the top-right corner of a direct message conversation represent different actions the user can take on that conversation. Click Notification Settings to set up notification preferences for the conversation, or click Start a Call to begin a meeting. See the Meetings section for more information about meetings. At the top of the direct message window, click the name of the direct message to change the group name, and choose to add a description in the adjacent Add a description field. Note The Add a description field is only available for group messages with more than two participants. Statut de l’utilisateur ¶ It is helpful to see what colleagues are up to, and how quickly they can respond to messages, by checking their status. The status is displayed as a circle in the bottom-right corner of a contact’s photo in the (Members List) . The color of the circle represents the user’s status: Vert = en ligne Orange = absent Blanc = hors ligne Avion = hors du bureau Leave a direct message conversation ¶ To leave a direct message conversations, click the (Leave this channel) icon next to the conversation name in the Direct Messages section of the sidebar. Note Leaving a conversation does not delete the direct messages in the conversation. The direct message conversation’s history is visible when another direct message with the same person, or group, is created. Réunions ¶ In Discuss , Meetings are video calls. To start a meeting from the Discuss dashboard, click Start a meeting in the top-left corner, and select who to invite to the meeting, via the Invite People drop-down window that appears. To start a meeting from a direct message, click the Start a Call icon in the top-right corner. Once a meeting has been started, the following buttons can be used: Icône Explication Mute Unmute Deafen Undeafen Turn camera on/off Raise Hand Share Screen Enter Full Screen User-specific notification preferences ¶ Access user-specific preferences for the Discuss app by navigating to Settings app ‣ Manage Users , select a user, then click the Preferences tab. By default, the Notification field is set as Handle by Emails . With this setting enabled, a notification email is sent by Odoo every time a message is sent from the chatter of a record, a note is sent with an @ mention (from the chatter of a record), or a notification is sent for a record the user follows. By choosing Handle in Odoo , the above notifications are shown in the Discuss app’s Inbox . Chat from different applications ¶ The Discuss application enables communication across all of Odoo’s applications. To view chats and channels, or start a new message, select the speech bubbles that are consistently present in the upper-right corner of the database header. Voir aussi Utiliser les canaux pour la communication d’équipe Activités Configurer des serveurs ICE avec Twilio Chatter Utiliser les canaux pour la communication d’équipe Configurer des serveurs ICE avec Twilio Chatter Edit on GitHub