# Lead distribution report¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/sales/crm/track_leads/lead_distribution_report.html

---

Lead distribution report ¶ A lead distribution report can be used to see if active leads are being assigned equitably across sales members. It can also be used to view the distribution of good or quality leads , and see how frequently each salesperson is receiving (and keeping) leads. Lead distribution reports can be run each week to help keep salespeople on track, while providing them with ample good leads. These reports can also be used to see whether sales members are staying productive, if good leads are being lost too often by one salesperson, and what percentage of good leads are being retained overall. Create lead distribution reports ¶ To create a lead distribution report, first navigate to CRM app ‣ Reporting ‣ Pipeline , which reveals the Pipeline Analysis dashboard. Remove all the default filters in the search bar at the top of the page. Doing so displays data related to all leads. Custom filters can now be added by clicking the (down caret) icon, to the right of the search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search and filter options. Three columns are displayed: Filters , Group By , and Favorites . To begin, navigate to the bottom of the Filters column, and click Add Custom Filter . This opens an Add Custom Filter pop-up window, where the essential filters can be added one at a time. Essential filters ¶ The following filter conditions are used to create a basic lead distribution report. Together they gather all leads created within a certain timespan that have an associated contact method and have been assigned to a sales team. Lead creation date ¶ Click the first field, under Match any of the following rules: , that has the value Country in it. In the popover that appears, type Created on in the search bar, or scroll to search through the list to locate and select it. Then, in the second field of that row, select >= from the drop-down menu. This operator only includes values greater than (or equal to) the value in the third, rightmost field. The third field on the Add Custom Filter pop-up window should contain the earliest date leads are selected from. For example, setting 01/01/2024 00:00:00 only includes leads created from, and including, the first day of 2024. Sales team ¶ Click New rule to add another row to the form, and choose Sales Team for this rule’s parameter. Then, click the second field of the new rule, and select contains from the drop-down menu. Selecting this operator filters for any records that contain the words in the third, rightmost field. Astuce For certain pre-determined, limited choices like a sales team, the is in operator helps make for an easier and more accurate selection, via a drop-down menu in the third field, instead of risking a typo or incorrect value in the text box field that accompanies the contains operator. In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s) that are to be included in the report. It is important for all contains argument values to be specific enough and spelled correctly as they exist in Odoo, otherwise this risks returning multiple (or zero) values. Important By adding more than one rule to the form, a new option emerges at the top of the pop-up window above all the filters, to specify whether any or all of the conditions should match. This distinction is important to set correctly, as it impacts the driving logic of how the filters return data. Click the default any menu item and be sure the all option is chosen instead. This setting will only show records that match all the rules contained inside the form. Contact method ¶ Note The instruction below is not necessary, however, it’s highly recommended to add a set contact value to the report’s search criteria. A lot of spam, duplicate, or low quality leads can easily be screened out of the report simply by adding either a set Phone or Email rule. Add another New rule to the form and set the first field to the first field to Phone . Then, select is set from the drop-down menu in the second field. Selecting this operator only filters for records that have a phone number associated with the lead. Alternatively (or in addition to the above rule), click New rule and set the first field to Email . Then, select is set from the drop-down menu in the second field. These rules add only leads with an associated contact method to the report. Active status ¶ Click the (Add branch) icon to the right of the Phone is set line, to add a new rule that branches from the rules above. Two horizontal sets of fields appear below a line showing any of: option. This setting filters for records that match any of the rules contained inside. This uses the same logic as an OR ( | ) logical operator. Set the first field to Active . Then, select is set in the next field. Next, click the (Add New Rule) button next to Active is set to create a new line of fields beneath it. Set the first field to Active . Then, select is not set in the next field. This rule adds the activity status of the lead to the report. Note Active status is an important filter to include when creating a lead distribution report because it includes all leads regardless of won/lost or active/inactive status in the report. This provides a comprehensive view of all the leads assigned to each sales member. Regrouper par ¶ Once all filters are set, click the Add button to add these filters to the search bar. To have the report grouped appropriately, click the (down caret) icon, to the right of the search bar, and click Salesperson in the Group By section. All results are now grouped by the salesperson assigned to each lead. Once the rules for the filter are set, click the purple Confirm button at the bottom of the pop-up menu to save the custom filter and close the pop-up menu. The Pipeline Analysis dashboard is now displayed again with each filter rule in the search bar. Click the (Graph) icon, to the right of the search bar, to view the report as a bar chart. Alternatively, click the (List) icon to view leads in a grouped list. Astuce To save the filter so it can easily be re-applied, click the Save current search button in the Favorites section of the search bar drop-down menu. Next, type a name for the filter in the text box below. Check the Shared checkbox to have the filter shared with any user with access to the pipeline. Finally, click the purple Save button below to save the filter. The filter will now appear with the name it was given under the Favorites section of the drop-down menu and can be re-applied by clicking on it. Filter for quality leads ¶ The following additional conditions are provided as an example of a good , but not comprehensive , set of rules for finding quality leads. These filters should be applied on top of the Essential filters in the order specified to achieve a heavily-detailed filter. Referred-by: Filter for referrals, such as by appointment or sales member. Source: Filter for specific source UTMs, such as Facebook or LinkedIn. Notes: Filter for internal notes. Tags: Filter for categorical tags. Email: Filter for specific email domains, such as gmail.com or yahoo.com. Salesperson: Filter for leads associated with certain sales members. These conditions can be added, removed, or modified to best fit the desired information in the report. Voir aussi Add rules for quality leads Search, filter, and group records Edit on GitHub