# Entrepôts¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/warehouses.html

---

Entrepôts ¶ In the Odoo Inventory app, a warehouse is a physical space with an address for storing items, such as a storage facility, distribution center, or physical store. Each database has a pre-configured warehouse with the company’s address. Users can set up multiple warehouses, and create stock moves between them. Configuration ¶ To create or manage warehouses, go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Warehouses . Then, select an existing warehouse, or create a new one by clicking New . Doing so opens the warehouse form, which contains the following fields: Warehouse ( required field ): the full name of the warehouse. Short Name ( required field ): the abbreviated code for the warehouse (maximum five characters). The short name for the default warehouse in Odoo is WH . Important The Short Name appears on warehouse documents, so it is recommended to use an memorable one, like « WH[first letters of location] » (e.g. WHA , WHB , etc.). Address ( required field ): the address of the warehouse. To change the warehouse address when creating two or more warehouses, hover over the field, and click the (right arrow) . Company ( required field ): the company that owns the warehouse; this can be set as the company that owns the Odoo database, or the company of a customer or vendor. Intrastat region : region name required for companies in the European Union. Important The options below are available only when the Multi-Step Routes feature is enabled in Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings . Incoming Shipments : select the option to receive products from the warehouse in one , two , or three steps. Outgoing Shipments : select the option to deliver products from the warehouse in one , two , or three steps. Dropship Subcontractors : available with the Subcontracting feature enabled in Manufacturing app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings . Tick this checkbox to purchase components from vendors, and dropship them to subcontractors. Resupply Subcontractors : available with the Subcontracting feature, tick this checkbox to supply subcontractors with raw materials stored in this specific warehouse. Manufacture to Resupply : tick this checkbox to allow for items to be manufactured in this warehouse. Manufacture : choose whether to manufacture products in one , two , or three steps . Buy to Resupply : tick this checkbox to allow for purchased products to be delivered to the warehouse. Resupply From : available with multiple warehouses in the database, select warehouses to pull stock from to fulfill orders. Voir aussi Use inventory adjustments to add stock to new warehouses Edit on GitHub