# Merge similar leads and opportunities¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/sales/crm/pipeline/merge_similar.html

---

Merge similar leads and opportunities ¶ Odoo automatically detects similar leads and opportunities within the CRM app. Identifying these duplicated records allows them to be merged without losing any information in the process. Not only does this help keep the pipeline organized, but it also prevents customers from being contacted by more than one salesperson. Note Lors de la fusion d’opportunités, aucune information n’est perdue. Les données de l’autre opportunité sont enregistrées dans le chatter et les champs d’informations pour référence. Identify similar leads and opportunities ¶ Similar leads and opportunities are identified by comparing the email address and phone number of the associated contact. If a similar lead/opportunity is found, a Similar Leads smart button appears at the top of the lead (or opportunity) record. Comparing similar leads and opportunities ¶ To compare the details of similar leads/opportunities, navigate to CRM app ‣ Pipeline or CRM app ‣ Leads . Open a lead or opportunity, and click the Similar Leads smart button. Doing so opens a Kanban view that only displays similar leads/opportunities. Click on a card to view the details for the lead/opportunity, and confirm if they should be merged. Merging similar leads and opportunities ¶ Important Lors de la fusion, Odoo privilégie la piste/l’opportunité qui a été créée en premier lieur dans le système, fusionnant les informations dans la piste/l’opportunité créée en premier. Cependant, si une piste et une opportunité sont fusionnées, l’enregistrement résultant est intitulé opportunité, quel que soit l’enregistrement créé en premier. After confirming that the leads/opportunities should be merged, return to the Kanban view using the breadcrumb link, or by clicking the Similar Leads smart button. Click the (list) icon to change to list view. Check the box on the left of the page for the leads/opportunities to be merged. Then, click the Actions icon at the top of the page, to reveal a drop-down menu. From that drop-down menu, select the Merge option to merge the selected opportunities or leads. When Merge is selected from the Actions drop-down menu, a Merge pop-up modal appears. In that pop-up modal, under the Assign opportunities to heading, select a Salesperson and Sales Team from the appropriate drop-down menus. Sous ces champs, les pistes/opportunités à fusionner sont répertoriées, ainsi que les informations y relatives. Pour fusionner ces pistes/opportunités, cliquez sur Fusionner . Danger Merging is an irreversible action. Do not merge leads/opportunities unless absolutely certain they should be combined. When leads/opportunities should not be merged ¶ There may be instances where a similar lead or opportunity is identified, but should not be merged. These circumstances vary, based on the processes of the sales team and organization. Some potential scenarios are listed below. Lost leads ¶ If a lead/opportunity has been marked as lost , it can still be merged with an active lead or opportunity. The resulting lead/opportunity is marked active, and added to the pipeline. Different contact within an organization ¶ Leads/opportunities from the same organization, but with different points of contact, may not have the same needs. In this case, it is beneficial to not merge these records, though assigning the same salesperson, or sales team, can prevent duplicated work and miscommunication. Existing duplicates with more than one salesperson ¶ If more than one lead/opportunity exists in the database, there may be multiple salespeople assigned to them, who are actively working on them independently. While these leads/opportunities may need to be managed separately, it is recommended that any affected salespeople be tagged in an internal note for visibility. Contact information is similar but not exact ¶ Similar leads and opportunities are identified by comparing the email addresses and phone numbers of the associated contacts. However, if the email address is similar , but not exact , they may need to remain independent. Example Three different leads were added to the pipeline and assigned to different salespeople. They were identified as Similar Leads due to the email addresses of the contacts. Two of the leads appear to come from the same individual, Robin , and have identical email addresses. These leads should be merged. The third lead has the same email domain, but the address is different, as is the contact name. While this lead is most likely from the same organization, it is from a different contact, and should not be merged. Edit on GitHub