# Prospection de pistes¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/sales/crm/acquire_leads/lead_mining.html

---

Prospection de pistes ¶ Lead mining is a feature that allows CRM users to generate new leads directly into their Odoo database. To ensure lead qualification, lead mining output is determined by a variety of filtering criteria, such as the country, the company size, and the industry. Configuration ¶ To get started, go to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings , and tick the Lead Mining checkbox to activate the feature. Then, click Save . Générer des pistes ¶ After the Lead Mining setting is activated, a new button called Generate Leads is available to use in the upper-left corner of the CRM Pipeline ( CRM app ‣ Sales ‣ My Pipeline ). Lead mining requests are also available through CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Lead Mining Requests , or through CRM app ‣ Leads ‣ Leads , where the Generate Leads button is also available. Click the Generate Leads button, and a pop-up window appears, offering a variety of criteria by which to generate leads. Choose to generate leads for Companies to get company information only, or choose Companies and their Contacts to get company information and individual employee contact information. Note When targeting Companies and their Contacts , additional options are available to filter contacts based on Role or Seniority . Additional filtering options include the following: Countries : filter leads based on the country (or countries) they are located in. States : further filter leads based on the state in which they are located, if applicable. Industries : filter leads based on the specific industry they work in. Filter on Size : tick this checkbox to specify the number of employees at the company. This generates a field labeled Size . Fill in the blanks to create a range for the desired company size. Sales Team : choose which Sales Team the leads will be assigned to. Salesperson : choose which member of the Sales Team the leads will be assigned to. Default Tags : choose which tags are applied directly to the leads once found. Important Assurez-vous d’être au courant des dernières réglementations de l’UE lorsque vous recevez des coordonnées. Vous trouverez plus d’informations sur le Règlement général sur la protection des données sur Odoo RGPD . Voir les pistes ¶ After leads are generated, they are assigned to the designated salesperson and team. To view additional information regarding the lead, select one from the list, and click to open it. In the chatter thread for the lead, additional information is provided. This can include the number of employees, the technology used by the company, the timezone, and direct contact information. Note If Leads are not enabled for the database, then leads are generated as opportunities , and added to the pipeline for the designated salesperson. To enable the Leads feature, navigate to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings , and tick the Leads checkbox. Then, click Save . Tarification ¶ Lead mining is an In-App Purchase feature, and each generated lead costs one credit . Important Generating Companies and their Contacts costs one additional credit for each contact generated. See here for complete pricing information: Lead Generation by Odoo IAP . To buy credits, navigate to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings . In the Lead Generation section, under the Lead Mining feature, click Buy Credits . Credits may also be purchased by navigating to the Settings app . In the Contacts section, under the Odoo IAP feature, click View My Services . Note Enterprise Odoo users with a valid subscription get free credits to test IAP features before purchasing more credits for the database. This includes demo/training databases, educational databases, and one-app-free databases. Voir aussi In-app purchases (IAP) Edit on GitHub