# Create leads (from email or manually)¶

Source: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/fr/applications/sales/crm/acquire_leads/email_manual.html

---

Create leads (from email or manually) ¶ Leads can be added to the CRM app from custom email aliases, and by manually creating new records. This is in addition to the leads and opportunities created in the app through the website contact form . First, ensure the Leads feature is enabled in the database by navigating to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings . Tick the Leads checkbox, then click Save . Configurer les alias d’e-mail ¶ Each sales team has the option to create and utilize their own unique email alias. When messages are sent to this address, a lead (or opportunity), is created with the information from the message. To create or update a sales teams” email alias, navigate to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣ Sales Teams . Click on a team from the list to open the team’s details page. In the Email Alias field, enter a name for the email alias, or edit the existing name. In the Accept Emails From field, use the drop-down menu to choose who is allowed to send messages to this email alias: Everyone : messages are accepted from any email address. Authenticated Partners : only accepts messages from email addresses associated with a a partner (contact or customer) record. Followers only : only accepts messages from those who are following a record related to the team, such as a lead or opportunity. Messages are also accepted from team members. Authenticated Employees : only accepts messages from email addresses that are connected to a record in the Employees app. Leads created from email ¶ Leads created from email alias messages can be viewed by navigating to CRM app ‣ Leads . Click a lead from the list to open it, and view the details. The email received by the alias is added to the chatter thread for the lead. The subject line of the message is added to the title field, and the Email field is updated with the contact’s email address. Note If the leads feature is not enabled on the database, messages to the email alias are added to the database as opportunities. Voir aussi Communication in Odoo by email Manually create leads ¶ Leads can be added directly to the CRM app by manually creating a new record. Navigate to CRM app ‣ Leads to view a list of existing leads. Astuce Leads can also be added via the Generate Leads button. At the top-left of the list, click New to open a blank Leads form. In the first field of the new form, enter a title for the new lead. Next, enter a Contact Name , and a Company Name . Note If a lead is converted to an opportunity , the Company Name field is used to either link this opportunity to an existing customer, or to create a new customer. Manually create opportunities ¶ To manually create an opportunity, navigate to CRM app ‣ Sales ‣ My Pipeline . At the top-left of the page, click New to create a new opportunity Kanban card. In the Organization/Contact field, enter the name of the company the opportunity is for. Choose a name, and enter it in the Opportunity field. This is a required field. When manually creating an opportunity, it is helpful to add a name that relates to the details of the opportunity. Example In the example below, the opportunity is named 5 VP Chairs . This identifies the product the customer is interested in, as well as the potential number of products. Enter the contact information for the opportunity in the Email and Phone fields. In the Expected Revenue field, enter an estimated value for the opportunity. Note The information in the Expected Revenue and priority fields can be used to track performance for individual salespeople, and on a team basis. See Expected revenue report and Assigner des pistes grâce à la notation prédictive des pistes for more information. Then, use the (star) icons to assign a priority. : low priority : medium priority : high priority : very high priority Note Assigning a priority changes the order of leads in Kanban view, with higher priority leads displayed first. Once all the necessary information has been entered, click Add . Edit on GitHub